advanced docs: 1.5 kernel execution configuration (#1054)
quarto-dev/quarto-web: docs/advanced/jupyter/kernel-execution.qmd

- `allow_errors`: if `true`, then the kernel is asked to not stop execution if a cell produces an error
- `fig_width`: the requested figure width in inches
- `fig_height`: the requested figure height in inches
- `fig_format`: the requested format for figure output (`png`, `jpg`, etc)
- `fig_dpi`: the requested resolution for images in dots per inch
- `cache`: if `true`, then Jupyter cache will be used

Quarto uses [Jupyter Comms](https://jupyter-client.readthedocs.io/en/latest/messaging.html#custom-messages) to provide its options to a kernel during execution. Specifically, Quarto will
open a comm with target name `quarto_kernel_setup`, and its initialization message content will contain these options under the `options` key.

::: callout-tip

In order to make the implementation of these features easier for writers of custom kernels, we have made available a fork of Jupyter's `echo_kernel`. 
This example kernel is meant to showcase the basics of a custom kernel implementation, and our fork adds the setup cell functionality.
See the [source for more](https://github.com/quarto-dev/quarto_echo_kernel).

:::

## Daemonization

> Quarto offers built-in support for `julia` and `python` kernels by default, see the docs for more ([Julia](https://quarto.org/docs/computations/julia.html#kernel-daemon), [Python](https://quarto.org/docs/computations/python.html#kernel-daemon)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Quarto offers built-in support for `julia` and `python` kernels by default, see the docs for more ([Julia](/docs/computations/julia.qmd#kernel-daemon), [Python](/docs/computations/python.qmd#kernel-daemon)).
```

### Adding support to a Jupyter kernel

{{< include /docs/prerelease/1.5/_pre-release-feature.qmd >}}

Arbitrary Jupyter kernels can indicate support for daemons. To do so, provide a `quarto_setup_cell` file in the kernelspec directory so that setup cells can be executed, and ensure that the execution of the setup cell returns an output result with metadata indicating support for running as a daemon. The supported metadata options are:

> - `daemonize`: if a kernel returns `true` when executing Quarto's setup cell, then Quarto will maintain a persistent kernel. The daemon options are the same as in the [documentation above]([Python](https://quarto.org/docs/computations/python.html#kernel-daemon)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `daemonize`: if a kernel returns `true` when executing Quarto's setup cell, then Quarto will maintain a persistent kernel. The daemon options are the same as in the [documentation above]([Python](/docs/computations/python.qmd#kernel-daemon)).
```

Author: Sure, but why?

Reviewer: Mostly for consistency and make sure internal links are internal, thus not using the apex.

The "html" to "qmd" is more of a long run thought, i.e., the feature request to have the documentation as PDF.

Reviewer: Related open discussion: https://github.com/quarto-dev/quarto-cli/issues/9099

Author: > thus not using the apex

I don't understand what you mean here.

> The "html" to "qmd" is more of a long run thought, i.e., the feature request to have the documentation as PDF

Ok, this makes good sense, thanks.

Reviewer: The `https://quarto.org` has no reason to be there for internal links.
The apex/domain should come from <https://github.com/quarto-dev/quarto-web/blob/main/_quarto.yml#L16>.
At least that is how it is tell/implied in the documentation, so we should follow this rule.
